C10 | Admissions to the PhD in Mechanical Engineering Program
https://pmu.edu.sa/admission/application_form_deme_gdp
Application Form for MSDH :: Graduate Degree Programs :: Admissions Office ::Study @ PMU :: PMU, Prince Mohammad Bin Fahd University

PHD IN MECHANICAL ENGINEERING ADMISSSIONS REQUIREMENTS

The Prince Mohammad Bin Fahd University’s (PMU) PhD in Mechanical Engineering is designed for professionals interested in developing and acquiring knowledge beyond their initial degree in order to improve their career prospects. The PhD in Mechanical Engineering is a qualification designed to widen the horizons of engineer professionals. The PhD program provides employees with the skills and competencies, which make them eligible for promotion into leadership positions. Examples of the opportunities available to the graduates are Oil and Gas, Petro Chemical, Manufacturing, Product Design, HVAC Engineering, Power Generation, Piping System, Industrial Management and Education Leadership.

Admission Criteria
Educational Background:
A completed baccalaureate and master degree in Mechanical Engineering* from a recognized university
A minimum cumulative GPA of 3.00 out of 4.00 or equivalent (Very Good) in Bachelor’s & Master’s Degree

*Applicants with closely related disciplines to Mechanical Engineering can apply upon conditions specified by the College of Engineering.

English Language Proficiency Test:
A valid IELTS certificate (Academic version) with minimum scores of 6.0 overall and 5.5 in each skill or equivalent TOEFL iBT minimum scores of 83 overall and 19 in each skill (online or home edition is not accepted)

Supporting Documents:
Statement of purpose: A statement of purpose (usually around 500 words) in which the applicant summarizes his/her professional goals, including professional objectives, research interests, his/her motivation for graduate work and other significant information.
Letters of reference: Applicants must submit at least two letters of recommendation that attest to their professional competence, academic preparation, and potential for graduate work. The two letters should clearly reflect professional success and foresee academic success at the graduate level. Ideally, one letter should be from a college or university professor who can discuss the applicant’s academic abilities and one should be from an administrator or colleague who can authoritatively describe the applicant’s professional experience and potential.
Work experience: Successful candidates are preferred to have industrial experience.

Personal Interview:
Candidates will be personally interviewed by committee of the program administrators and faculty

--- links ---
 | https://pmu.edu.sa/admission/application_form_deme_gdp#sidebar
