C18 | Admissions to the MSID Program
https://pmu.edu.sa/admission/application_form_msid_gdp
MSID ADMISSSIONS REQUIREMENTS :: Graduate Degree Programs :: Admissions Office ::Study @ PMU :: PMU, Prince Mohammad Bin Fahd University

MSID ADMISSSIONS REQUIREMENTS

Admissions to the Master of Science in Interior Design (MSID) Program

The Department of Interior Design at PMU will educate tomorrow’s interior design leaders and innovators, will create new knowledge, will provide a nurturing environment for teamwork and lifelong learning, and will positively impact the economic prosperity of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The mission of the Master of Science in Interior Design Degree Program at Prince Mohammad bin Fahd University (PMU) will be to provide an environment conducive to the development of future educators or design managers for Saudi Arabia and the Gulf region. The program prepares graduates for a changing world with a blend of theory and practice in association with the local needs of the community. Candidates in the Master of Science in Interior Design Degree Program at PMU will also develop self-learning and life-long learning practices that will equip them to encounter problems and change with confidence. Individualized development within the program of study will encourage graduates to concentrate on areas of interest.

Admission Criteria
Educational Background:
A Bachelor’s Degree of Science in Interior Design from a recognized university
A minimum cumulative GPA of 2.50 out of 4.00 or equivalent (Very Good) in Bachelor’s Degree

*Students with Bachelor of Science degrees in closely related disciplines to Interior Design can apply upon conditions specified by the College of Architecture and Design.

English Language Proficiency Test:
A valid IELTS certificate (Academic version) with minimum scores of 6.0 overall and 5.5 in each skill or equivalent TOEFL iBT minimum scores of 83 overall and 19 in each skill (online or home edition is not accepted)

Supporting Documents:
Statement of purpose: A statement of purpose (usually around 500 words) in which the applicant summarizes his/her professional goals, including professional objectives, research interests, his/her motivation for graduate work and other significant information.
Letters of reference: Applicants must submit at least two letters of recommendation that attest to their professional competence, academic preparation, and potential for graduate work. The two letters should clearly reflect professional success and foresee academic success at the graduate level. Ideally, one letter should be from a college or university professor who can discuss the applicant’s academic abilities and one should be from an administrator or colleague who can authoritatively describe the applicant’s professional experience and potential.

Personal Interview:
Candidates will be personally interviewed by committee of the program administrators and faculty

--- links ---
 | https://pmu.edu.sa/admission/application_form_msid_gdp#sidebar
